[Word] (events) Add article (#4651)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/word/word-add-ins-events.md

---
title: Work with events using the Word JavaScript API
description: A list of events for Word JavaScript objects. This includes information on using event handlers and the associated patterns.
ms.date: 07/09/2024
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Work with events using the Word JavaScript API

This article describes important concepts related to working with events in Word and provides code samples that show how to register event handlers, handle events, and remove event handlers using the Word JavaScript API.

## Events in Word

> Each time certain types of changes occur in a Word document, an event notification fires. By using the Word JavaScript API, you can register event handlers that allow your add-in to automatically run a designated function when a specific event occurs. The following events are currently supported.

Reviewer: I know the pluralization was correct, but I think simplifying the sentences a bit would help speed readers.

```suggestion
When certain changes occur in a Word document, event notifications fire. The Word JavaScript APIs let you register event handlers that allow your add-in to automatically run designated functions when those changes occur. The following events are currently supported.
```

| Event | Description | Supported objects |
|:---------------|:-------------|:-----------|

> | `onAnnotationClicked` | Occurs when the user clicks an annotation (or selects it using **Alt+Down**).<br><br>Event data object:<br>[AnnotationClickedEventArgs](/javascript/api/word/word.annotationclickedeventargs) | [**Document**](/javascript/api/word/word.document#word-word-document-onannotationclicked-member) |

Reviewer: Is the keyboard shortcut important here? If so, please ignore this.
```suggestion
| `onAnnotationClicked` | Occurs when the user selects an annotation.<br><br>Event data object:<br>[AnnotationClickedEventArgs](/javascript/api/word/word.annotationclickedeventargs) | [**Document**](/javascript/api/word/word.document#word-word-document-onannotationclicked-member) |
```

### Event triggers

Events within a Word document can be triggered by:

- User interaction via the Word user interface (UI) that changes the document.
- Office Add-in (JavaScript) code that changes the document.
- VBA add-in (macro) code that changes the document.

Any change that complies with default behavior of Word will trigger the corresponding events in a document.

### Lifecycle of an event handler

An event handler is created when an add-in registers the event handler. It's destroyed when the add-in deregisters the event handler or when the add-in is refreshed, reloaded, or closed. Event handlers don't persist as part of the Word file, or across sessions with Word on the web.

> [!CAUTION]

> > When an object to which events are registered is deleted (e.g., a content control with an `onDataChanged` event registered), the event handler no longer triggers but remains in memory until the add-in or Word session refreshes or closes.

Reviewer: Is this a cautionary statement because of memory issues?

Reviewer 2: What should a reader do with this information? I expect this is pretty esoteric/non-actionable for them? My inclination would be to skip this.

### Events and coauthoring

> With coauthoring, multiple people can work together and edit the same Word document simultaneously. For events that can be triggered by a coauthor, such as `onParagraphChanged`, the corresponding **Event** object will contain a **source** property that indicates whether the event was triggered locally by the current user (`event.source = Local`) or was triggered by the remote coauthor (`event.source = Remote`).

Reviewer: Should "triggered by coauthoring" be a table column entry?

Reviewer 2: Have you definitely validated this works? My recollection from Excel is that coauth changes do not trigger events. Your add on line 50 does not include coauth changes - should it?

> With coauthoring, multiple people can work together and edit the same Word document simultaneously. For events that can be triggered by a coauthor, such as `onParagraphChanged`, the corresponding **Event** object will contain a **source** property that indicates whether the event was triggered locally by the current user (`event.source = Local`) or was triggered by the remote coauthor (`event.source = Remote`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With coauthoring, multiple people can work together and edit the same Word document simultaneously. For events that can be triggered by a coauthor, such as `onParagraphChanged`, the corresponding **Event** object will contain a **source** property that indicates whether the event was triggered locally by the current user (`event.source == Local`) or was triggered by the remote coauthor (`event.source == Remote`).
```

## Register an event handler

> The following code sample registers an event handler for the `onParagraphChanged` event in the document. The code specifies that when content changes in the document, the `handleChange` function should run.

Reviewer: Let's avoid ambiguity in when the event handler fires.
```suggestion
The following code sample registers an event handler for the `onParagraphChanged` event in the document. The code specifies that when content changes in the document, the `handleChange` function runs.
```

```js
await Word.run(async (context) => {
    eventContext = context.document.onParagraphChanged.add(handleChange);

    await context.sync();
    console.log("Event handler successfully registered for onParagraphChanged event in the document.");
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
```

> ## Handle an event

Reviewer: Consider merging this with the previous section. I'm not sure there's a benefit to splitting the code here.

        await context.sync();        
        console.log("Type of event: " + event.type);
        console.log("Source of event: " + event.source);       
    }).catch(errorHandlerFunction);
}
```

## Remove an event handler

The following code sample registers an event handler for the `onParagraphChanged` event in the document and defines the `handleChange` function that will run when the event occurs. It also defines the `deregisterEventHandler()` function that can subsequently be called to remove that event handler. Note that the `RequestContext` used to create the event handler is needed to remove it.

```js
let eventContext;

async function registerEventHandler() {
  await Word.run(async (context) => {
    eventContext = context.document.onParagraphChanged.add(handleChange);

    await context.sync();
    console.log("Event handler successfully registered for onParagraphChanged event in the document.");
  });
}

async function handleChange(event: Word.ParagraphChangedEventArgs) {
  await Word.run(async (context) => {
    await context.sync();
    console.log(`${event.type} event was detected.`);
  });
}

async function deregisterEventHandler() {

>   await Word.run(eventContext.context, async (context) => {

Reviewer 2: Consider explicitly calling out that the add-in needs to use the same context object on which the handler was registered. This surprises a lot of people

Author: Added comment accordingly

    eventContext.remove();
    await context.sync();
    
    eventContext = null;
    console.log("Removed event handler that was tracking content changes in paragraphs.");
  });
}
```

## Use .track()

> Certain event types also require you to call `track()` on the object you're adding the event to.

Reviewer: Consider avoiding ending the sentence in a preposition.
```suggestion
Certain event types also require you to call `track()` on the object to which the event is added.
```

Author: Per [guidance](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/grammar/prepositions#placement-in-the-sentence), we can end with a preposition. I might wait to see what Linda Lu says for this.

- Content control events

>   - onDataChanged

Reviewer: Should these event names be in code ticks?

  - `onSelectionChanged`
- Comment events (preview)
  - `onCommentAdded`
  - `onCommentChanged`
  - `onCommentDeleted`
  - `onCommentDeselected`
  - `onCommentSelected`

The following code sample shows how to register an event handler on each content control. Because you're adding the event to the content controls, `track()` is called on each content control in the collection.

```typescript
let eventContexts = [];

await Word.run(async (context) => {
  const contentControls: Word.ContentControlCollection = context.document.contentControls;
  contentControls.load("items");
  await context.sync();

  // Register the onDeleted event handler on each content control.
  if (contentControls.items.length === 0) {
    console.log("There aren't any content controls in this document so can't register event handlers.");
  } else {
    for (let i = 0; i < contentControls.items.length; i++) {
      eventContexts[i] = contentControls.items[i].onDeleted.add(contentControlDeleted);

      // Call track() on each content control.
      contentControls.items[i].track();
    }

    await context.sync();

    console.log("Added event handlers for when content controls are deleted.");
  }
});
```

> The following code sample shows how to register comment event handlers on the document's body object and include a `body.track();` statement.

Reviewer: Nit: Personal preference on excluding semicolons when talking about code in text.
```suggestion
The following code sample shows how to register comment event handlers on the document's body object and include a `body.track()` statement.
```

## Events in Word

When certain changes occur in a Word document, event notifications fire. The Word JavaScript APIs let you register event handlers that allow your add-in to automatically run designated functions when those changes occur. The following events are currently supported.

> | Event | Description | Supported objects | Supports coauthoring? |

Reviewer: Is "Supports coauthoring?" the right framing?  That seems to switch the direction of what triggers the event. Consider something like "Triggered during coauthoring?" to indicate that changes made by other users will trigger events in your session.
```suggestion
| Event | Description | Supported objects | Triggered during coauthoring? |
```

| `onParagraphChanged` | Occurs when the user changes paragraphs.<br><br>Event data object:<br>[ParagraphChangedEventArgs](/javascript/api/word/word.paragraphchangedeventargs) | [**Document**](/javascript/api/word/word.document#word-word-document-onparagraphchanged-member) | Yes |
| `onParagraphDeleted` | Occurs when the user deletes paragraphs.<br><br>Event data object:<br>[ParagraphDeletedEventArgs](/javascript/api/word/word.paragraphdeletedeventargs) | [**Document**](/javascript/api/word/word.document#word-word-document-onparagraphdeleted-member) | Yes |
| `onSelectionChanged` | Occurs when selection within the content control is changed.<br><br>Event data object:<br>[ContentControlSelectionChangedEventArgs](/javascript/api/word/word.contentcontrolselectionchangedeventargs) | [**ContentControl**](/javascript/api/word/word.contentcontrol#word-word-contentcontrol-onselectionchanged-member) | Yes |

### Events in preview

> [!NOTE]
> The following events are currently available only in public preview. [!INCLUDE [Information about using preview APIs](../includes/using-preview-apis.md)]

> | Event | Description | Supported objects | Supports coauthoring? |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Event | Description | Supported objects | Triggered during coauthoring? |
```
